---
# Insert this YAML header (including the opening and closing ---) at the beginning of the document and fill it out accordingly

# We use this key to indicate the last reviewed date [manual entry, use YYYY-MM-DD]
# Uncomment and populate the next line accordingly
date: 2025-07-02

# We use this key to indicate the last modified date [manual entry]
date-modified: 2025-07-08

# Do not modify
lang: en
language: 
  title-block-published: "Last reviewed"
  title-block-modified: "Last modified"

# Title of the document [manual entry]
# Uncomment and populate the next line accordingly
title: Data security

# Brief overview of the document (will be used in listings) [manual entry]
# Uncomment and populate the next line and uncomment "hide-description: true".
#description: Short description of the document
#hide-description: true

# Authors of the document, will not be parsed [manual entry]
# Uncomment and populate the next lines accordingly
author_1: Raul Ortiz Merino
#author_2:

# Maintainers of the document, will not be parsed [manual entry]
# Uncomment and populate the next lines accordingly
maintainer_1: Raul Ortiz Merino
#maintainer_2:

# To whom reach out regarding the document, will not be parsed [manual entry]
# Uncomment and populate the next line accordingly
corresponding: Raul Ortiz Merino

# Meaningful keywords, newline separated [manual entry]
# Uncomment and populate the next line and list accordingly
categories: 
 - data
 - security

---

Data security is a critical aspect of research data management, ensuring that sensitive information is protected from unauthorized access, loss, or corruption. It involves implementing measures to safeguard data throughout its lifecycle, from collection and storage to sharing and archiving.

TU Delft implements robust authentication and authorization mechanisms, such as strong passwords and two-factor authentication, to restrict data access only to approved individuals and systems.   

## Core principles of research data security

Key principles include:

- Availability: Ensuring that authorized users can access the data and associated systems when needed for their research activities.

- Confidentiality: Ensuring that data is accessible only to individuals who are explicitly authorized to view or use it.   

- Integrity: Maintaining the accuracy, completeness, and consistency of data throughout its entire lifecycle, preventing unauthorized modification. Regularly backing up data to prevent loss due to accidental deletion, hardware failure, or cyberattacks, and having a recovery plan in place to restore data in case of incidents.

:::{.callout-tip appearance="simple" icon="false"}
**{{< fa lightbulb >}} Tip:** Explore our [*Data backup*](../data_storage/backup.md) guide for more information.
:::

### Verifying data integrity

A **checksum** is a small-sized block of data derived from another block of digital data. By comparing the checksum of a file you have downloaded, backed-up, or transferred with the one provided by the source, you can verify if the file is an exact and untampered copy.

#### **Step 1: Obtain an original checksum**

Before you can verify a file, you need an original checksum value. This is typically provided by a website or source from where you downloaded the file. It could also have been generated by yourself  from Step 2. It usually is a long string of alphanumeric characters and is often labeled as MD5, SHA-1, or SHA-256.

For example, you might see something like this on a download page:

`SHA-256: e3b0c44298fc1c149afbf4c8996fb92427ae41e4649b934ca495991b7852b855`

#### **Step 2: Generate a checksum for your file**

You can use different command-line tools to calculate the checksum of the file you have downloaded, transferred or backed-up.

::: {.panel-tabset}

### Windows PowerShell

Open PowerShell (press Win + X and select "PowerShell").

Use the `Get-FileHash` command. By default, it uses SHA-256.

```powershell
Get-FileHash C:\path\to\your\file
```

To use a different algorithm like MD5, specify it:

```powershell
Get-FileHash C:\path\to\your\file -Algorithm MD5
```

### macOS terminal

Open your terminal (you can find it in Applications > Utilities).

For SHA-256, use the `shasum -a 256` command:

```Bash
shasum -a 256 /path/to/your/file
```

For MD5, use the `md5` command:

```Bash
md5 /path/to/your/file
```

### Linux terminal

Open your terminal.

For SHA-256, use the `sha256sum` command:

```Bash
sha256sum /path/to/your/file
```

For MD5, use the `md5sum` command:

```Bash
md5sum /path/to/your/file
```

:::

#### **Step 3: Compare the checksums**

Finally, compare the checksum you generated in Step 2 with the original checksum from Step 1. There might be cases where you need to do Step 2 in two different systems, such as a local machine and a remote server.

If they match exactly, your file is a perfect copy.

If they do not match, the file was likely corrupted during download or has been tampered with. You should delete the file and download it again.

### Other considerations

:::{.callout-tip appearance="simple" icon="false"}
**{{< fa lightbulb >}} Tip:** Explore our [*Data privacy*](../planning/privacy.md) guide for more information on data requiring work with highly sensitive data, such as personal information, health data, or copyrighted material
:::

:::{.callout-important appearance="simple" icon="false"}
## {{< fa info-circle >}} Important<br>

- **Reach out to your faculty [data steward](https://www.tudelft.nl/library/research-data-management/r/support/data-stewardship/contact) for more information.**
- Explore TU Delft security and privacy related resources:
  - [**TU Delft Security and Privacy SharePoint site**](https://tud365.sharepoint.com/sites/SecurityPrivacyTUD/SitePages/en/Privacy.aspx)
:::
