---
# Insert this YAML header (including the opening and closing ---) at the beginning of the document and fill it out accordingly

# We use this key to indicate the last reviewed date [manual entry, use YYYY-MM-DD]
# Uncomment and populate the next line accordingly
date: 2025-04-04

# We use this key to indicate the last modified date [manual entry, use YYYY-MM-DD]
# Uncomment and populate the next line accordingly
date-modified: 2025-07-11

# Do not modify
lang: en
language: 
  title-block-published: "Last reviewed"
  title-block-modified: "Last modified"

# Title of the document [manual entry]
# Uncomment and populate the next line accordingly
title: Archiving

# Brief overview of the document (will be used in listings) [manual entry]
# Uncomment and populate the next line and uncomment "hide-description: true".
#description: Short description of the document
#hide-description: true

# Authors of the document, will not be parsed [manual entry]
# Uncomment and populate the next lines accordingly
author_1: Maurits Kok
author_2: Elviss Dvinskis

# Maintainers of the document, will not be parsed [manual entry]
# Uncomment and populate the next lines accordingly
maintainer_1: Elviss Dvinskis
#maintainer_2:

# To whom reach out regarding the document, will not be parsed [manual entry]
# Uncomment and populate the next line accordingly
corresponding: Elviss Dvinskis

# Meaningful keywords, newline separated [manual entry]
# Uncomment and populate the next line and list accordingly
categories:
  - Software
  - Archive
  - Zenodo
  - 4TU
---

Archiving your software ensures long-term availability and accessibility. By archiving your software, you can preserve its state at a specific point in time, making it easier for others to access and use it in the future.

## Zenodo

[Zenodo](https://zenodo.org) supports the archiving of research outputs, including software releases. Zenodo can automatically archive releases from GitHub repositories and assign a DOI, making each version citable.

To use Zenodo with GitHub:

1. Link your GitHub account to Zenodo to allow access to repository information.
2. Enable the repository you want to archive on the Zenodo dashboard.
3. Create a new release on GitHub. Zenodo will automatically archive this release and issue a DOI.
4. You can then share the DOI link provided by Zenodo in your project's README or documentation, or paper, so a specific version of your software can be referenced.

:::{.callout-tip appearance="simple" icon="false"}
## {{< fa lightbulb >}} Tips


- Zenodo can only access public repositories.
- If you need to archive a repository from an organization, the owner of the organization might have to authorize the Zenodo application to access it.
- You can also try out [Zenodo Sandbox](https://sandbox.zenodo.org) before archiving your projects to Zenodo. Zenodo Sandbox mimics the main Zenodo platform and is designed to test out the functionality of Zenodo without accidentally making mistakes with the real software/data and the main site. Since it's an exact mirror of Zenodo it provides the same user experience and all the same tools and the same interface.
:::
:::{.callout-note appearance="simple" icon="false"}
## {{< fa signs-post >}} Learn more
- [Referencing and citing content](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/archiving-a-github-repository/referencing-and-citing-content)
:::

## 4TU.ResearchData

[4TU.ResearchData](https://data.4tu.nl) is another platform that offers reliable archiving of research data and software. Their servers are located in the Netherlands, and they are committed to long-term preservation. 4TU.ResearchData offers at least 15 years of archival storage.

To get started:

1. Log in to your 4TU.ResearchData account (using institutional access).
2. From the dashboard navigate to upload a new project.
3. Either choose open access or you also have the option to choose embargoed or restricted access.
4. Upload your relevant files. 4TU.ResearchData supports Git for version control. Either just drag and drop datasets, or to deposit software you can push your Git repository to the 4TU remote.
Add the remote:
    - `git remote add 4tu [link automatically generated by 4TU]`
Then, push your repository:
    - `git push 4tu --all`
    - `git push 4tu --tags`
5. You will have a DOI number reserved, and versioning is also supported.
6. Maintain and update your archive as necessary to reflect any significant changes or additions to the software.


:::{.callout-tip appearance="simple" icon="false"}
## {{< fa info-circle >}} **Information**
- When you are ready to publish your software on 4TU.ResearchData, ensure to choose the "Software deposit" option in the 'Files' section at the bottom of the upload form. This option allows you to upload your software files directly from your Git repository. If you have additional files, you can also manually drag your software files from your local drive into the upload box.
- 4TU.ResearchData also has a [sandbox](https://next.data.4tu.nl) available.   
:::  

:::{.callout-note appearance="simple" icon="false"}
## {{< fa signs-post >}} Learn more
- More information on 4TU.ResearchData can be found in their [FAQ](https://data.4tu.nl/info/about-4turesearchdata/frequently-asked-questions).
:::